index.adoc, before:

= Golang Syllabus
Huripto Sugandi; Kenny Karnama;
:toc:

== Introduction

=== why ?

Go is a compiled language, therefore it is much faster compared to other programming languages. What makes golang faster is that there is no runtime when executing a golang app. 
Golang doesn’t support Object Oriented Programming so it is more straightforward, but if designed properly can work just as well.
Golang supports concurrency which could be useful for many cases, unlike javascript or PHP which are single threaded programming languages. 
And finally golang has excellent dependency management which works like a composer, but in a much more efficient way and is already built in in golang.


=== Local Environment Setup

==== Windows
==== Mac OS
==== Linux

=== Hello World

[source,go]

----

package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
    fmt.Println("Hello World")
}
----

== Syntax 

=== Variables

To do

=== Functions
=== Pointers
=== Structs
=== Maps
=== Slices
=== Decision structure
=== Loops
=== Range
=== Interfaces
=== Channels
=== Encoding

== Package

Go programs are structured in package. Package is a way to embrace DRY principle. A package is nothing more than a folder consists of multiple go source files. You can think package as the workspace.

:imagesdir: img/

image::golang_package_illustration.png[]

To start with package, the syntax is like this

[source,go]

----
package <your package name>
----

Inside a package, we can decide whether a particular struct or functions can be exported or it stays private.

[source,go]

----
package example

// Goes exported
// you can call it example.Public
type Public struct {

}

// Stays private inside the package
type private struct {

}
----

All internal libraries in Go use package. For example, package fmt. We can use this package to print out some stuffs to the stdout for example.

[source,go]

----
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
    fmt.Println("Hello")
}
----

If you notice, everytime you run a go program, the execution is placed inside main go with package main and function main.This is a special because it is used to indicate a go source is meant to be executable.

== Unit Test

To do

== Plugin & External Libraries

Commit message:

Add variable section (#2)
* add section package

* add variable section

Co-authored-by: kenny karnama <kennykarnama@kennys-MBP.lan>
Co-authored-by: kenny karnama <kennykarnama@kennys-MacBook-Pro.local>

index.adoc, after:

= Golang Syllabus
Huripto Sugandi; Kenny Karnama;
:toc:

== Introduction

=== why ?

Go is a compiled language, therefore it is much faster compared to other programming languages. What makes golang faster is that there is no runtime when executing a golang app. 
Golang doesn’t support Object Oriented Programming so it is more straightforward, but if designed properly can work just as well.
Golang supports concurrency which could be useful for many cases, unlike javascript or PHP which are single threaded programming languages. 
And finally golang has excellent dependency management which works like a composer, but in a much more efficient way and is already built in in golang.


=== Local Environment Setup

==== Windows
==== Mac OS
==== Linux

=== Hello World

[source,go]

----

package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
    fmt.Println("Hello World")
}
----

== Syntax 

=== Variables

Variables in Go can be defined in two ways

[source,go]

----
var s string // var declaration

s := "" // short variable declaration

----

In Go, there is zero-value mechanism for value. This mechanism ensures every variables in Go have default values (no variables are left uninitalized).

Each of variable declared (var & short declaration) consists of:

- name
- type
- initialization value

For supported data types in Go, you can see in here: 

:hide-uri-scheme:

https://go.dev/ref/spec#Types

=== Functions
=== Pointers
=== Structs
=== Maps
=== Slices
=== Decision structure
=== Loops
=== Range
=== Interfaces
=== Channels
=== Encoding

== Package

Go programs are structured in package. Package is a way to embrace DRY principle. A package is nothing more than a folder consists of multiple go source files. You can think package as the workspace.

:imagesdir: img/

image::golang_package_illustration.png[]

To start with package, the syntax is like this

[source,go]

----
package <your package name>
----

Inside a package, we can decide whether a particular struct or functions can be exported or it stays private.

[source,go]

----
package example

// Goes exported
// you can call it example.Public
type Public struct {

}

// Stays private inside the package
type private struct {

}
----

All internal libraries in Go use package. For example, package fmt. We can use this package to print out some stuffs to the stdout for example.

[source,go]

----
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
    fmt.Println("Hello")
}
----

If you notice, everytime you run a go program, the execution is placed inside main go with package main and function main.This is a special because it is used to indicate a go source is meant to be executable.

== Unit Test

To do

== Plugin & External Libraries
